# Fire in the Lake - Factions Guide

## NVA

NVA will often spend much time building up forces through the Rally Op, often in combo with Infiltrate, and including getting the Trail value up to 4 which makes the Laos/Cambodia spaces a "free highway" for March movement before exiting into South Vietnam spaces. But at some point, the NVA has to March (i.e., move) its forces into South Vietnam, as the NVA is in direct competition with the ARVN over Control of spaces to achieve the NVA's Victory conditions (and to undermine the ARVN's Victory conditions. For that reason, the 2-Pop Province spaces, as well the Hue City space are prime targets. Within those, the Quang Tri/Binh Dinh Highland spaces are prime (because they increase the difficulty for the COIN forces' Attack Op), as well as Tay Ninh Jungle space(because of the increased difficulty for the COIN forces Sweep Op, plus often the opportunity to "steal" VC (Tunneled) Base via Infiltrate). Hue and the Lowland 2-Pop spaces are a bit more vulnerable to the COIN Assault/Sweep Ops. In fact, the 1-Pop Highland/Jungle may be preferred targets over the more vulnerable 2-Pop spaces. The NVA will also want to avoid getting into too much of a "slugging match" with the US using Attack Ops but can do very nicely reducing US forces with Bombard (a special activity that can be overlooked) or by an NVA Assault in combo with Ambush (especially if there is NVA Guerilla is on an adjacent LoC which the COIN forces will have a more difficult time retaliating against). Also, there's Volko "hostage tactic" where you March NVA forces into spaces with Support which may give the US player pause to conduct Air Strikes that will decrease Support/increase Opposition if there aren't enough Air Strike targets in that space to justify it; bringing along some NVA Underground Guerillas with the NVA Troops can make that "hostage tactic" a real headache for the US. The NVA should also play the Easter Offensive Pivotal Event with the max possible NVA forces on the map, and potentially when the VC is the next Eligible Faction to gain maximum benefit.

## VC

Usually the VC tries to spread out the VC Guerillas to make them tougher targets for the COIN forces to control, and to increase the potential spaces for Terror Ops which increase a critical VC Victory component, Opposition. Like the NVA, the VC want to set up shop in the Highlands and Jungle spaces. Particularly important is for the VC to March VC Guerillas onto the LoCs; not only does this provide a Resource engine through Tax, but also impedes the ability of the ARVN to rapidly move forces via either Transport or Patrol, can decrease Econ, especially during the Coup Round, and sets up Ambush opportunities (see comment regarding NVA Ambush above). In addition, Rally/March Ops which place VC Guerillas Underground in spaces with ARVN cubes set up debilitating VC Subvert Special Activity which reduces ARVN forces and can also decrease Patronage (the other component of the ARVN Victory condition.) While the NVA is a nominal "ally," the VC player must still watch out for the NVA Infiltrate Special Activity, especially for Tunneled VC Bases. The Tet Offensive Pivotal Event needs to be played when the VC can execute maximum Terror for Opposition increase/Support decrease benefit, and where there are at least some VC Guerrillas in the VC Available Box for placement in Cities, as The Tet Offensive is somewhat of a "two-edged sword" as it exposes VC pieces to subsequent COIN "retaliation" (and which may be negated somewhat if the NVA is the next Eligible Faction).

## ARVN

As a key component of the ARVN Victory condition is Control, the ARVN needs COIN Control in as many spaces as possible, and which can be defended against NVA/VC incursions. Train Ops for the ARVN can be very important to get more ARVN cubes on the map, as well as ARVN Rangers which are useful for conducting deadly (to the NVA/VC) Raid Special Activities. The ARVN also needs to "pry" VC/NVA Guerillas of the LoCs or suffer from Ambush/Econ decreases, as well as cutting off an important VC Resource engine through Tax. The ARVN Patrol Op can also be used to cheaply move ARVN cubes around where needed (much more so than Transport.) Increasing Patronage, for example, through the Govern Special Activity, is an important component of the ARVN Victory equation, and one important reason why the ARVN may choose to Pacify during Train Ops to increase Support, the other being to deny spaces for VC/NVA Rally Ops. However care has to be taken using the Govern Special Activity as it can take a bite out of Aid (thus later lowering subsequent ARVN resources during a Coup Round), as well as potentially lowering Support to Neutral, thus permitting Rally Ops into those spaces by the VC/NVA. If possible, the ARVN should try to increase Patronage through Card Event play, especially as Patronage can be increased often through Card Event play in larger increments and thus negate attempts by the US to lower Patronage through a US Train Op in Saigon. Early play of the Vietnamization Pivotal Event is extremely helpful in getting the maximum number of ARVN forces on the map, especially if the US player is tending to move more US forces back to the Available Box during the Commitment Phase of Coup Rounds.

## US

The US player has to balance US forces on the map with those in the Available box as that impacts one component of the US Victory equation, Available forces. As much as possible early in the game, the US needs to have 20-25 US Troops on the map (to avoid being overrun by the NVA forces, and especially to try to preclude play of the NVA Easter Offensive Pivotal Event early), and if possible, keep at least 10 US Troops in the Available Box. US Bases should also be placed judiciously, and as much as possible, in support of US Troops in Highland spaces to negate the Assault negative in such spaces. The US also has to Pacify as much as possible (in spaces without US Troops during Train Ops, and in spaces with US Troops and Police during Coup Rounds) to get the Support component of their Victory equation up. Like the ARVN, the US Patrol Op can be used to move US Troops around where needed (and without limit to 4 spaces as in the Air Lift). One common "faux pas" to avoid is getting into a "slugging match" with the NVA as, while it's important to minimize NVA Control of spaces, "killing" NVA forces (via Assault Ops or Air Strike Special Activities) does not always immediately improve the US Victory equation. Note also that an Air Strike can also be coupled with a Train Op, and you may want to do the Air Strike first (to reduce Insurgent forces, as well as decrease the Trail value), followed by a Train Op in the same space to increase Support that may have been lowered by the Air Strike. As the game gets closer to the last Coup Round, the US needs to, during the Coup Rounds before the last one, to move more US forces (especially US Bases which, in my opinion, become less important to be on the map late in the game) back to the Available Box during the Commitment Phase, but still leave, if possible, 10-15 US troops on the map to keep the Insurgent forces under control, and to also have enough presence on the map to conduct Pacification to increase Support/Patronage reduction as needed. Also, the US should put itself in position as early as possible to play the Linebacker II Pivotal Event, and to play it for maximum effect, i.e., when the NVA have in excess 10 Resources and is also currently Eligible. Play of Linebacker II at an opportune time can be crippling to the NVA.